---
title: is banjo southern?
---

_Hello, world! This is my attempt to write the least blog possible — the idea being to write short daily updates about what’s on my mind. Do I think it’s worth reading? Probably not! But I’ve also come to understand that what we think isn’t worthwhile in our own work often is worthwhile to other people; I’m thinking of how much I’ve learned watching people make music or motion graphics on their computers, except what I’m learning isn’t what they’re saying as they work, it’s just what happens to be on their screens — weird little things._

_Also I apologize in advance for how academic this writing will sound._

___

Here’s something I’ve been thinking about since I’ve been playing banjo more often lately: when we think of banjo music, we usually think of the South, which is usually code for the White South. And then if you read about the history of the banjo, you learn that it’s actually a Black-Atlantic instrument — something that you won’t find in Africa (at least not exactly), but also something that is (or was) common throughout much of the world of African chattel slavery.

Why then do we think of banjo as white? I believe the story goes: banjo was the predominant instrument of minstrel music, which was the first true American popular music (a genre whose dynamics still define today’s popular music; is Post Malone a minstrel? (yes he is)). Minstrel music was popular everywhere in the United States, and was made by people from all over the US, not just Southerners. Around the end of the 19th century, other genres — ragtime, jazz, rock — began to dim minstrel music’s popularity, but minstrel music and its trappings planted themselves deeply in the folk traditions of Appalachia, one of the more secluded regions of America. Then, after some time passed, non-Appalachian academically-minded Northern Whites became interested in this Appalachian folk traditions, marrying the whole idea of the banjo with these white banjo players in the misty hollers of Appalachia.

What’s fascinating to me is how brief was the window of time between the end of minstrel music and the "rediscovery" of banjo in Appalachia. Let’s say by 1900 no one in the American mainstream really cared or thought about black banjo as popular music. Then 50 years later, the American mainstream reframes banjo as white. But now here we are, 70 years after that, still associating black minstrel music with white Appalachian southerners. Put another way, non-Appalachian White Americans have been playing "white Appalachian southern music" for a longer period of time than Appalachian White Americans.

(Trying to capitalize and use the word White as much as possible, just to make sure I don’t fall into the usual pattern of referring to White Americans as "Americans.")