---
title: "gutenberg: the beginning of the end"
---

A few months ago there was a tweet going around, [a little video](https://twitter.com/simoncozens/status/1217862777559289858) that recreated some of the typographic moves that Gutenberg made when composing a line of text for his 42-line bible — basically, showing that, when Gutenberg was trying to justify a line nicely, there were a lot of moves he _could_ make — elide a few characters into one with a scribal abbreviation; grab an alternate sort that made a letter thinner; change an "et" into a Tironian _and_ symbol; etc.

What I found interesting was the cascade of type-minded people who tweeted to express some kind of amazement about how "advanced" Gutenberg’s typesetting was; something akin to the idea that isn't it crazy it’s taken us 500 years to get back to this high level of typesetting using our modern technology?

It’s a funny inversion of reality to me: Gutenberg was in fact the first step _away_ from that tradition of complex calligraphic writing that allowed for spacing-minded improvisation at the letter-level. Gutenberg was not a paragon of the style, he was basically the last person to ever do it, because the technology he invented worked against that kind of design; it was simply easier to add space between typecast letters in order to justify a line than it was to select an alternate, or an abbreviation. In fact, you probably didn't have those abbreviations available as typecast characters, because they were a PITA to make in the first place. So they started to disappear completely, until today, when the only one we really have is an ampersand (though various European countries have clung to one or another: the French with their œ, the Spanish and their ñ, the Danish and their æ, etc.). Worth nothing that's part of the reason English spelling is so weird — we no longer have a character for the sound that "th" makes when voiced or voiceless.

Anyway, not much of an observation, but one that I constantly think about — an incredible example of the way we often misunderstand history. Gutenberg's invention created our impoverished writing system, not the other way around.