---
title: is midi a typographic technology?
---

Classic shower-thought, from who-knows-when: _Sampling in music is the same thing as typography in graphic design_.

To expand: when you "hit a snare" with a sampler, you always get the same snare sound. When you "write an A" with a printing press, you always get the same A.

What’s fascinating is how entrenched the typographic aesthetic is in Western graphic design (and increasingly World graphic design), but how not entrenched the sampling aesthetic is in music, generally-speaking — sampling is still a marker of genre, not a generally-accepted principal.

But perhaps the biggest difference between sampling and typography is the difference between hearing and sight; it’s incredibly easy to trick the eye, but incredibly difficult to trick the ear (case in point: cartoons can abstract the human form to a couple of lines, but we still have human actors voice those characters).

Been thinking about this a lot since I’ve spent the last week going down the acoustic-drum-sampling rabbit hole; I want to have acoustic-sounding drums on The Kitchen Cabinet recordings I’m working on, but I also don’t want to get a drum kit. Well, actually I did just buy a drumkit for kids, will surely write about that more when it arrives. But the point is: it’s incredibly hard to program, even with rigorously sampled drums, something that captures the kind of live drumming I used to do in college; that strange problem where I was so bad at playing drums, and the drums were so crappy, that no one would ever go out of their way to sample drums like those, or provide all the kind of messed up flam samples I would need to reconstruct those parts.

Basically: it’s easy to program a drum part that sounds like a _good_ drummer. It’s difficult to program a drum part that sounds like a bad drummer. Similarly, typography was always good at capturing something like high-quality calligraphic writing. And yet to this day I can’t find a good handwriting font that actually looks like bad, rushed handwriting.