---
title: Dub w/o toasting == a Greek statue w/o paint?
---

Lost in the world of Jamaican 70s/80s dub for many months now, reading Michael Veal’s fabulous book on the subject. When I first starting listening to dub, I was struck by the fact that the music seem to be popular in Jamaica, but also extremely... as Veal points out, "avant-garde" isn’t the right word, though in a European context it does sound that way. That is, could such ambient music really have been “pop” music?

Apparently it was, but there’s a twist — dub music was never really meant to be heard as we hear it now. It was meant to be played on a gigantic sound system, to provide a backdrop for a DJ (what Americans call an MC) to rap/toast over. That is, when you listen to dub music on Spotify, you’re only hearing half of the story — a situation that reminds me of the way post-classical European cultures have fetishized the "purity" of classic marble sculpture, despite the fact that no classical sculptor ever had that kind of presentation in mind, since all sculptures would have been heavily painted-on, more closely resembling sculpture from the Indian subcontinent than the hundreds of years of Renaissance-inspired marble sculpture so beloved in Europe.

Interesting the way a "mistake" like that kind of "legalizes" more minimal creative expressions.

In a way this is similar to another point made in Veal’s book — well I'm not sure if he made the point directly or if I kind of inferred it. Basically, music and drugs are often talked about in the same breath, an assumption (among most people) being getting high or stoned leads to enhanced creativity, perhaps particularly in the case of Jamaican music. And yet the inventor of the most "out" forms of dub (King Tubby) never did drugs. What struck when learning that was that drugs aren’t important to music-_making_ — drugs are important for music enjoyment among non-musicians. I think any musician would probably agree they could vibe out and enjoy themselves when making very minimal music without the assistance of drugs, simply because the act of making music is itself a kind of narcotic or altered state. But what non-musician wants to listen to super minimal electronic music? (Not to denigrate super minimal electronic music, which I love, but maybe only because I love music more than the average person?)