---
title: Is a program a description?
---

"Description" is a word you sometimes hear in relation to programming, or "description language" to put it more specifically, though usually a "description language" is something less than a "real" language, or something less formal — looser, less powerful. To be honest, I don't think I've ever used a language with "description" in the name, though CSS might be close in spirit.

Anyway, that's not really the point here — the point is really just to say that all programming is description. Description of an algorithm, of an animation, of an idea. An extremely precise description of something that doesn't exist. Which makes it fiction writing? It does bring something to life in the mind of the computer.

When I briefly attempted a freelance writing career a few years ago, before I knew anything about video production, I was struck by how annoying it can be — in text — to laboriously describe something that can be seen and understood in a video much more easily. More specifically, I was trying to describe a scene from a videogame, when I could've just embedded the videogame in a webpage. A strange time in the life of writing — for so long the only way to experience so much of another's person's life was to read about it. Camera equipment was too heavy, too finicky, too distracting to really capture something naturally. But now everyone carries a camera in their pocket — and not just a camera, a camera that's better at observation (description?) than any camera built before the turn-of-the-millenium. A clear, digital, in-focus image, 4k resolution, capturing nuances that no writer would ever bother to record.

But a video can only capture what exists, and filming what doesn't exist — the business of Los Angeles — is the most expensive, most difficult way there is to tell a story. (And also the most profitable. Or is that video games?) Describing what doesn't exist — or what only exists in the mind — is the natural home of writing. (I was prompted to read this by reading a description of Lil Nas X’s performance on SNL. A very nice description, though hard to know if it was a nice description, since I saw the performance. Not quite related, but I'm always haunted by the vague memory of reading a description of some remote place in the _The New Yorker_, and feeling like I had a picture of it in my mind's eye, then I went to watch a video of the same place on YouTube, and it was completely different. I felt scammed somehow.)

Programming embodies that same feeling of wandering so central to essay- and fiction-writing. You begin by taking a step, then taking another, foot by foot, line by line. Though the walking metaphor breaks down there, in some ways — walking is a performance, something you can't stop and edit. Well you could stop, actually. That's something I do a lot. Stop, rewind a moment, usually to take a picture of some strange sign. Maybe the metaphor doesn't break down. Writing and programming (and video-editing) are all about playback. Rewind the tape to the last point and continue. If you take the wrong fork when walking, it's easy enough to turn around (incredible turning radius on foot).