---
title: Drawing & Writing (& Performing?)
---

Finding it difficult lately to avoid thinking about things in terms of a back and forth between __drawing__ & __writing__. Though also realized recently that maybe __performing__ is another pole in that tent — that is to say, differing emphasis among those three things seems to define so many creative fields and the people who enjoy them. I think this is generally a part of my brain's insistence on finding a common thread to tie together everything I've ever been interested in. Why that's important to me, I really have no idea. Like, who cares? You can just be interested in things, Rob! And yet I find myself trying to discern some meaningful link between rallycross racing sims and the way a sentence is built up in the New Yorker.

Anyway back to the trinity — which, now that I'm attempting to explain it, does seem difficult to understand, even for myself. Writing, which in my mind is really prose editing (otherwise it’s improvisation or oratory, which is in the performance category, or it’s poetry, which seems somehow closer to drawing in my mind, though not strongly) — anyway writing in my mind represents a process that is _continuously editable_. You write a sentence or a function, then move on, but then you can go back and change something small in it, without having that change necessarily create ripples throughout the rest of the work; put alternatively, you can easily make many changes that don't necessitate erasing some previous work in order to get at the thing you do want to change. Obviously that does happen in writing a lot — one change requires many others — but you can always grab a hunk of text and put it aside, to save for later. The eraser doesn't allow for that — drawing, in my mind, requires a level of consideration and commitment (and flow of changes) that makes it unappealing to me. The point here is that writing, of those three things, is a process whose most important dimension is _editable time_; time also defines performance, of course, but performance lacks editability.

I mean, the main thing is just to say, writing (and programming, and even rallycross lol) — all of these things are about the careful control of time.

Although I have to admit, now that I've written this out (and made some continuous edits), this all smacks of philosophy in some way. Which is — I guess one way to put it is that philosophy is kind of cringe. Or is that sentence itself cringe? Who's to say!

___

Wow seeing that other recent post about "Just cut it" sparked something in my mind as well — film editing is so much like writing in so many ways, it's almost entirely free of tricks, in a way that reminds me of writing. There are things to learn of course, but it's a skill you absorb just by watching. Almost without technique. (Which is probably why there are basically no books about film editing technique — not something I thought would've been the case before I went looking.)