---
title: Bad at drawing (good at writing?)
---

As part of taking a type design course, I came to realize that I do not particularly enjoying _drawing_. I think for most of my life I have thought of myself as someone who does, or at least _could_, enjoy drawing. And yet... I’ve never really drawn anything. I’ve done many things _close_ to drawing, though never drawing itself: pencil on paper. Daily calligraphy might be the closest I’ve ever come, though is calligraphy drawing? I’d argue it’s not — calligraphy is __writing__.

That seems like a useful distinction to me: drawing vs. writing. Everything I’ve ever been good at, you describe with the verb _to write_. Writing music, writing essays, writing code. Even film editing, which I’m not particularly good at, but do enjoy, I’d argue is more of a "write" than a "draw," since you’re building up something that unfolds in time, as opposed to the layering implied by drawing.

This probably makes very little sense, and maybe the better distinction is that I’m drawn to _editable_ tasks. (Lol, colloquial drawn there — what a weird idiom.) Editable meaning the structure of the thing in question is always simply there before you. A clip abuts another; words unfold in a sentence; a chord comes before the next; here’s a function, and another, then another... At any point, you can rearrange. Drawing on an iPad I guess you get something like this, but pen-on-paper is a committed act, and the art there is that uneditable layering. Sculpting might be the best word; you can’t go back, you can only keep sculpting. Well I guess you can erase but then there are erasers bits everywhere.

Not sure this amounts to anything — not even sure why I find it necessary to conjure up some metaphor to tie together all my interests. Though this would explain why I’ve never learned to layer anything, whether it be music or graphic design. Writing is the unlayerable art, proceeding in that single dimension.