---
title: Simile of open-source
---

Been thinking more and more over the few months about how coding (as I do it) is really a form of writing, both in the mechanical sense of tapping on a keyboard, but also in the functional sense of writing-as-_description_. When design with code, you are _describing_ the design. (And when you draw a design, you're just... designing?) Starting to understand that what's interesting about code, to me, is that it makes possible a world in which a description of a visual thing can have a definite output. You describe a beautiful sunset and it will appear in the mind of the reader, but the details are necessarily fuzzy. You describe a scene with code and then render the scene in Blender... that's the scene.

Anyway all of this got me thinking: _what is the "open-source" of writing?_ That is, if code relies so heavily on the building blocks of open-source and code is like writing, what are the building blocks of writing? At first it seemed like there was no comparison, but then I realized the comparison was so obvious it was almost too obvious: just other writing. You read a little of something — a biography — and then you use a little bit of that, stewed together with other reading, to produce your own writing, your own description of a person. A 500 page biography about some president and you take away the fact that they had a dog, and that fact becomes some little bit of evidence in an essay; 500,000 lines of code and you take away a little function, and that function becomes some little crucial element in your own program. And what makes the comparison interesting, in my mind, is that the references in writing are often as transparent as they are in open-source code. When you jump-to-source and suddenly find yourself in some strange package, isn't that exactly the same thing as following a footnote to some strange book in the stacks?