---
title: Is the technique more interesting than the instrument?
---

Daydreaming about banjo history while playing banjo, caught by the persistent idea that the most important thing about banjo history, when it seems to me the most important thing is the playing technique, not the instrument itself. Often you hear that the drone string is the most stand-out feature, but baroque guitars in Europe had reentrant tuning (a feature preserved in ukuleles), but no one at that time thought to clawhammer the instrument. Which I think gets to the heart of what was revolutionary about the banjo in the new world: not its shape or its strings, but the simple downstroke — so deeply counterintuitive to the Arabic plectrum or European fingerpicking that prized independent dexterity of individual fingers. What’s so strange (and lovely) about clawhammer, is that the hand moves as one unanchored rhythmic unit (akin in some ways to the dexterity required by brush calligraphy).

All in all, what I'm trying to say is, what I "know" is how to play clawhammer, not how to play "the banjo." (Given that there are an infinite number of ways to play a banjo, and I'm only good at one of the well-known ones.)

Same is true of guitar, even more so. I don’t know much of anything about how to play in a classical guitar style, though I can flat-pick jazz chords.

Also similar to programming languages (a comparison I keep coming back to (the similarity of programming languages and instruments)) — you learn how to do functional programming in one language, and then you pick up another language and realize you can functionally program it as well, like clawhammering a ukelele or a re-strung electric guitar. It’s not the same experience, and the affordances of the banjo or a Lisp become apparent very quickly, but the essential knowledge is transferable, and doesn't have much to do with the number of strings or the shape of the body.

(A topic for another time, but "language" really is a poor metaphor for programming, not least b/c languages themselves transcend human construction.)