---
title: Difficult journey to arbitrary destination
---

Title is just a phrase I wanted to remember — I guess I came up with it because there are no google results for it, although I know I didn't invent the idea. Basically just been watching Top Gear / Grand Tour for the first time in my life — hard to believe the show is so entertaining, given though Jeremy Clarkson is a true piece of garbage. Glad I'm only watching it now that I'm a fully developed adult, could see it's right-leaning moments dementing an adolescent.

The real highlights of the show are the travel episodes, where the trio heads to some remote location and has to drive to another remote location, for no reason at all. Incredible how satisfying that format is: just having a hard time getting somewhere. And then when they get there there's never any unpacking. The show just... ends.

Amazing too how much the aesthetic of the road-trip shows reminds me of No Reservations / Parts Unknown, even if the shows have utterly different agendas. Still a white man abroad, and a lanky one at that — Bourdain and Clarkson have, despite themselves and their politics, a similar energy. Tall white men of similar ages, amazed at the world, the same gonzo-inspired narration, leather jackets, jeans.

Still have a hard time watching Bourdain when Diana puts one on the TV. Genuinely seemed like a good guy, only celebrity death that's ever meant anything to me. Probably represents a distinct time in my life — learning about food with Diana, watching 720p YouTube rips of No Reservations on a crappy laptop in college with her, and then he kept changing as we grew up. Wow incredibly sad even thinking about this. HDifficult journey to an arbitrary destination.

Now of course she watches Somebody Feed Phil which... lol. She also watches unnarrated YouTube content of a Singaporean couple wandering various night markets. Somehow that's better than Somebody Feed Phil.