---
title: Are monophonic solo instruments better when heard and seen?
---

Struck by a youtube comment on [this guqin video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x4R2KNyrJM4); commenter says something about how the instrument needs to be heard and seen together, which I think does ring true to me. Guqin music is, when only heard, a little boring, but when also seen, quite engaging — an audiovisual instrument. (In particular the left-hand movements that are kind of note-less, just the sound of skin on wrapped string.) Almost dance-like. Which got me thinking about the dan bau, how it was a "lover’s instrument" only loud enough to be played for one person, who obviously would've been quite close. Also got me thinking about how solo banjo is an audiovisual instrument as well — very nice to be entranced by the motion of both hands, though the instrument can be fairly boring when playing solo.

Though at the same time, I've been listening to lots of renaissance and baroque lute music and went searching for videos to watch last night of solo lute players. Certainly not boring, but also not all that fascinating. Definitely music that does _not_ need to be seen as well as heard. Maybe because of how polyphonic lute music is? An interesting thought — polyphonic, at an almost evolutionary level, implies a group of people, or at least too much motion to truly comprehend. A guqin or banjo player's two hands can be seen together in a single field of view, the pair moving together to produce single sounds. Certainly a banjo or guqin will often sound multiple strings, but there is little to no contrasting movement in a single hand as there can be in the intricate movement of fingers in lute playing. Kind of overflows the visual senses, in the way piano playing can as well, or especially something like a church organ. A single operator but the sound of a whole group of people, and traditionally the least "seen" music in the era before recordings (the keyboardist hidden away somewhere in a resounding space). Of course, again, quite enjoyable to watch an organist, but in a way it is less satisfying given the visual complexity of the task, and certainly goes against how the instrument was conceived of — to be enjoyed as a huge sound in a huge space by a huge group of people.

Does European-style polyphony push music further to the "visual-only" side of the audiovisual spectrum? Does drone or monophonic music sit more squarely in the center of that spectrum?

Where dance is on one end of the spectrum, and recorded music on the other. Fascinating that both imply the existence of the other but can exist wholly without them. That is, dance does not need music, and music does not need dance.

Not really sure where I'm going with this, other than to say I realized that some music is best heard seen.