---
title: A Chinese metaphor for Gutenberg
---

"Latin writing is made up of individual letters" — a fact seemingly so obvious to us now, but was it obvious in 15-century Europe? Almost feels like proof positive that Gutenberg got the idea for printing from China, since (at the time), individual glyphs to represent medieval Latin calligraphy was such an ill-fitting solution. Basically was a self-fulfilling fact once Gutenberg started Latin down that road. That is, Gutenberg's decision to model Latin writing after Chinese writing leads to the invention of the monospaced typewriter.

_Almost_ understandable if you look at Greek or Roman writing, that the letters are atomized (more true given the ancient Greek tendency to monospacing), and yet Romans so often played with combinations and ligatures and letters-inside-other-letters.

A little hard to fathom, but the truth is plain: each successive typographic technology was _less capable_ than the one that came before, all the way up until the 1990s and the invention of OpenType. (accurate statement?) Gutenberg split the /g’s ear from its neighbor and 500 hundred years later, English speakers can stomach using a grid of 64 pixels to represent that lonely lowercase /g.

Gutenberg's modular system becomes standard metal type, which is clunky and slow but fast compared to handwriting, and does allow for as much customization as kerning as the typefounders or their clients desire. Then the Linotype era completely destroys this, leading to the "classic" typography of the 20th century, which had no kerning at all. Then the typewriter, then Letraset (a fun and liberating technology, but another in the march towards the individuality of glyphs), then pixels for arcade game.