---
title: Pity for the permit
---

Reading Esther McCoy’s _Five California Architects_ (amazed I didn't know about her until now!) — excellent book, though not quite as good as the collected writings in _Piecing Together Los Angeles_. Oh actually the chapter on Greene and Greene was written by Randall Makinson — loved the closing note: when the brothers were awarded with a AIA citation in 1952, Henry noted in his remarks: "In my day, you could proceed to do a job and carry it out completely. We didn't need to have inspections. A craftsman's work was his reputation." As Makinson notes, "He pitied those who lived and worked in what he called this period of transition."

Heard something recently from a mid-century architect looking back at his era, that he pitied today's architects because they had to draw up 100 pages of plans when he only had to do 7.

---

Also wanted to note, I’ve been reading old issues of _Art & Architecture_, mostly to look for the original Case Study house articles, but struck most of all by how so many of the ads — directed towards architects and builders — pitch their product as preferable to women, e.g. _your wife will love this_, that kind of angle. Struck me immediately how different the house back then was, somewhere a man left every day for a long time, whereas today (for me at least), I'm home all day, "using" the house just as much as anyone else.

Also struck by how bad all of the writing is, like liner notes on jazz albums but even denser somehow. After reading a few of these articles, I got in the mindset that that’s just how people wrote about architecture back in the 50s and 60s, and that was confirmed by the foreword to McCoy’s _Five California Architects_, since the foreword was written by John Entenza, the editor of _Art & Architecture_. Almost unreadable, in the way you're distracted by a reflection in an overly polished surface; it's hard to see the thing you're looking at. But then the foreword ended and McCoy’s writing began — which felt completely modern: it no longer felt formal but instead had a flow, was looser, moved nicely, folded me in.