---
title: Neutra, a tough pill to swallow
---

Reading McCoy’s _The Second Generation_ (what an incredible writer!), currently the first part about JR Davidson, a very interesting figure, and not a self-promoter as McCoy tells it. Great anecdote: when Davidson was working on the Thomas Mann house, Neutra kept writing to Mann begging for the commission, saying things like, "Why settle when you could have the best architect?" Neutra seems a little weird for other reasons (bothering clients, etc.) but that's a particularly damning anecdote — a weird mix of desperation and narcissism. Of course, I know it doesn't really matter, what architects were like, though it's difficult to ignore their personalities, a particularly high percentage of which seem to be... bad personalities.

Watching a documentary on Oscar Niemeyer, another... well maybe not a bad personality but a complex one. A communist from a wealthy family, who got his start designing buildings for "friends of the family" (who apparently needed large modern office buildings). Notes that when the builders built a facade incorrectly, he paid "with his own money" to have it redone. (Surely redoing the facade of an office building couldn't have been cheap?) Also revels in an anecdote about telling the Soviets their architecture sucked, then gets very defensive about the time Gropius told him his own house was lovely but "unreproducible"; a point Niemeyer can't stand, says it's "rubbish"; and yet he was a communist?

A little depressing how common that origin story is — a house for the architect's parents, an office building for a friend of the family — though understandable; why would anyone trust a 20-something to build a building?; how does one become an architect without building something in their 20s?

All of this to say, I feel a little ambivalent about learning so much about individual architects, but it seems like there's no other way to really understand the built environment. I just need to not care so much about whether or not they were good people, why should that matter. Treat them like any other invisible web of interconnection; treat them like fonts.