---
title: The Eames House, a holy place
---

Diana got us tickets to see the Eames House for my birthday this year. I was very excited to see it, and it did not disappoint. Standing there in the meadow as the tour guide spoke, I looked into the living space and felt, for some reason, nearly moved to tears. It felt almost like peering into a doll house (I should really build an Eames House 1/12th scale doll house for Kaki), everything just so, dusted but untouched for over 30 years.

I was also amazed at how poorly aged everything looked on the exterior. The corroded steel frame; the water stain on the interior curtain; the paint on the bright blue panel worn away to reveal the brush strokes. Reminded me of the Neutra basketball court in Eagle Rock, except that that building is forgotten and mostly unloved. This one is the opposite, one of the most loved structures in Los Angeles. And that's not to say the poor aging looked bad — it looked beautiful. Aged in a lovely way, which I guess isn't "poor" at all, except that it did still feel kind of neglected. But again, in a nice way, let to age naturally.

Also simply the most beautiful piece of land, a curving meadow. The PCH was a little loud, though. Anyway, would love to build a replica Eames House and live in it out in the woods somewhere. A glass house like the Farnsworth or the Philip Johnson one, except both of those seem so humorless. Nothing but humor in this building, a smile on every face.

What a freeing thing to see. Knick-knacks all over the place in a postwar glass pavilion. All their interests under one roof.